ABOUT
Boulderactive
In 1998, the NUS Climbing Club invited like-minded individuals for a day of climbing in the NUS Bouldering Gym and this invitation has reached more and more climbing enthusiasts over the years. As the number of participants grew, NUS Climbing Club and TeamNUS Climbing jointly organized a climbing event that goes beyond the NUS Bouldering Gym – Boulderactive. This event that was inaugurated in 2001 became the first ever national-scale climbing-related competition, increasing the profile of bouldering in the public community. The inception of Boulderactive was a milestone in the local climbing scene, triggering zealous interest for the sport.

Boulderactive has successfully attracted the attention of climbers both locally and regionally in the 18 years it has been running, evolving into one of the most highly anticipated climbing events annually.

Black Diamond
Black Diamond specializes on top-quality gear for skiing and climbing. The team behind Black Diamond are climbers and skiers themselves and thus, they stand for the spirit of these extreme sports through their products. Since 1957, Black Diamond has been pushing the standards in innovative gear designs, creating a promising future for the climbers and skiers around the world. Over the years, Black Diamond has grown as a company and has gained recognition for the excellent equipment they provide, allowing climbers and skiers to take their craft to the next level.



Contact

NUS Climb Official Site
www.nusclimb.com

For more information or enquiries, contact us by dropping us an email at:
boulderactive@nusclimb.com
 
FAQ
Registration
How much is the competition fee?
Individual Events:
Early Bird - $30
Normal - $40
Team Event:
Early Bird - $90
Normal - $110
Family/Public Events:
Adult + Child (10y/o and below) = $20
Individual (11y/o and above) = $15

When should I register and make payment by, in order to enjoy early bird prices?
To enjoy early bird prices, you must register online before Early Bird Registration ends. Registrations made after Early Bird Registration will have to pay the normal prices.

During on-site registration on event days itself, can I register for my friend is he/she is late?
No, the participant must be present for on-site registration before the registration window closes.

Payment

If my friend cannot come down to make payment can I do so for him/her?
Yes you may. Simply come down with the relevant details such as his/her full name and NRIC and the category that you are paying for.

For foreign participants, how do I make payment?
Boulderactive will be holding a separate payment collection closer to the event date (usually a day before the actual start of the competition) for foreign competitors. Alternatively, you can ask a local participant to help with making payment on one of our allocated cash payment collections.

Event

How is the Team event going to be carried out?
The team event will be in flash format, so your team will be in a detail with several other teams, with access to all the available routes.

Will female climbers in the Team Category be given any bonus?
Yes, female climbers in the Team Category will score double points for the team.

Can I join the team event as well as the U-17/Novice/Intermediate event?
Yes, you can. Only national (boulder/lead) /Open climbers are not allowed to join the team event. However, a maximum of 2 Intermediate climbers are allowed in each team.


How is the Fun Climb Event going to be carried out?
Beginner friendly! We will have multiple routes available on the wall where climbers can just have fun. Prizes will be given out if you complete a certain number routes. A fun event for the whole family!


Who can join the Fun Climb event?
Anyone can join – parents, children and all other members of the public. However, competitors from other categories are not allowed to join this event. 


What do I need to bring for the Fun Climb Event?
Bring your own climbing shoes if you have as they will not be provided. Otherwise, you only need to be dressed in appropriate sporting attire with sport shoes. Bring some guts and determination along as you will definitely need them!


What is Session Format and how does it work?
Session Format is adopted from The North Face Cup held in Japan. This format will be used for Open Qualifying round.
Open climbers will have 60 minutes to finish 8-10 routes. Scoring will be based on Top-Bonus-Bonus (there will be 2 bonuses) scoring. Attempts will not be counted, however, number of flashed routes will be counted.
Climbers will be allocated into different details. There will be no demonstration climb and there will be isolation.

 
Rules and Regulations
Rules
1. Competitors must wear the official event T-shirt during their climb.
2. Competitors must report punctually for their respective categories. Latecomers will be disqualified. 
3. The organizers reserve the right to amend the rules and regulations without prior notice.
4. Competitors will be briefed on the rules of the competition on the actual day itself.
5. Schedule of categories may be subjected to changes. Participants are advised to check their email and the event website for the latest updates.
6. The organizers reserve the right to utilize pictures taken of participants for the purposes of publicity, promotion and post-event reports.
7. Different qualification formats of will be used throughout the competition. The Flash Format will be used during the U17, Novice and Intermediate Qualifying rounds, the Session Format will be used during the Open Qualifying round, and the Rotation Format will be used for U17/Novice/Intermediate categories’ Finals. Open Semi-Finals and Finals will follow IFSC-Styled Rotation Format.



Eligibility
The eligibility criteria are provided for each category. Participants in the wrong category will be disqualified and moved to a higher category. International climbers would have to contact NUS Climbing for category eligibility.

Under 17
1. As of December 2016, participants must be below the age of 17.
2. Participants must not have been a finalist in the Novice or higher categories of previous competitions before.

Novice Category
1. Participants must not have been a finalist in the Novice, Intermediate or Open categories of previous competitions before.
2. National boulder/lead climbers are not allowed to join this category.
3. Participants of this category are allowed to join the Intermediate and Open Categories as well.

 

Intermediate Category
1. Participants must not have been amongst the top 3 positions in the Intermediate or Open categories of previous competitions before.
2. Participants must not have been a finalist in the Open categories of previous competitions before.
3. National boulder/lead climbers are not allowed to join this category.
4. Participants of this category are allowed to join the Open Category as well.

Open Category
1. All are welcome! If you dare..
2. National (Boulder/Lead) climbers can only join this category.






Team Category
1. Each team must have 3 people. (No restrictions on gender composition)
2. Maximum of 2 intermediate climbers per team.
3. Girls score double points.
4. National boulder/lead/invitational climbers are not allowed to join this category.


Fun Climb Category
1. Anyone can join except those who have registered for other competitive categories.
2. Children aged 10 and below have to be accompanied by a registered adult.

